Peru is definitely a world-class surf destination. Actually, some surfers claim it is the best surf country in South America. Peru became famous for its long left point breaks. You must have heard about Chicama, the longest left in the world, which is located on the Central Peruvian Coastline. But that is only one spot among many other great ones. Amazingly, Peru offers perfect surf from north to south. Not all the beaches are as famous as Chicama, but many of them are top quality, from the kind you see only on TV or YouTube videos.

Although some of the waves are aggressive and challenging, there are many beginner surf beaches in Peru. Therefore, regardless of your skill level, you can have a great surfing experience here. 

So, In detail, these are the best surf spots in Peru for beginners:

Mancora
Beginner Surf in Mancora, Peru
Mancora is a popular beach town in North Peru. Due to its location up north, it is warm and sunny all year long. Moreover, it is one of the only places in Peru where you can surf without a wetsuit and feel comfortable.

The waves in Mancora are gorgeous. The main spot here offers a left-hand point break, suitable for all skill levels. Although the bottom is rocky, the waves are very soft and mellow, so if you surf it during high tide, you will be just fine. In case the swell is too big, when you are there, you can just sit lower in the lineup and catch the smaller waves. Also, within a 10-minute drive, there is another beginner-friendly spot called Los Organitos.

Mancora offers a good balance between surf and nightlife. Both locals and foreigners love to visit here and enjoy its relaxed vibe. After your surf sessions here, you can enjoy great restaurants, bars, and crazy parties at night.

For details about beginner surf camps in Mancora, please click here.

 

Lobitos
Surfer on a Wave in Lobitos
Lobitos is one of the best surf spots in Peru for beginners, for experts, and for anything in between. In fact, there are 7 different surf breaks in Lobitos, so there is definitely something for any type of surfer. Although some of the spots offer hollow barrels, others are mellow and beginner-friendly. For instance, the break just in front of town, La Punta, is where novice surfers can get some long, mellow left rides.

Lobitos is a tranquil and isolated town. You will not find here any bars, parties, or vibrant tourist scenes. The only reason to come to Lobitos is to enjoy some epic surf. It is one of the only world-class surf beaches that remained non-touristic. Therefore, it is definitely worth taking advantage of that before too many people will start coming here.

For details about beginner surf camps in Lobitos, please click here.

Chicama
Long Lefts in Chicama
Chicama is the spot that put Peru on the world’s surfing map. It is the longest left in the world and, therefore, a true goofy footer’s paradise. This epic wave has 4 different sections. Sometimes they connect, sometimes they don’t, as it obviously depends on the swell. But the bottom line is this- on a good day, you can ride this wave for about 2 minutes long!

If you want to surf Chicama at its best, you better wait for a decent swell. Once such swell hits, the waves are suitable for all skill levels. The break is soft, and the ride is exceptionally long and mellow. After getting off a wave, don’t even think about paddling back. Just walk your way from shore back to the lineup.

For details about beginner surf camps in Chicama, please click here.

Huanchaco
Huanchaco Beach, Peru
Huanchaco is definitely one of the best beginner surf beaches in Peru. It is a cool “hippie” town, primarily popular among backpackers. Despite the cold water and the medium-quality waves, Huanchaco is a surf town with its soul. If you want to take some surf lessons or rent a board, this is the place to do it. Moreover, the sandy bottom and the soft waves make it a perfect environment for practicing. Most surfers spend their time here when the swell is small, and once it gets big, they head to Chicama to score the long lefts.

For details about beginner surf camps in Huanchaco, please click here.

 

Playa Waikiki, Lima
Beginner Surf Spot in Lima, Peru

Lima, the Peruvian Capital, is situated right on the country’s Central Coastline. On the one hand, it is very easy to get here, and everything a big city has to offer is within reach. But on the other hand, spending your holiday in a cold and polluted city is not precisely a surfer’s dream. However, if you happen to be in Lima, there are several excellent surf beaches for newbies. Playa Waikiki, for example, offers a nice beach break and a variety of surf schools and board rentals. Although it is crowded, just like all beaches in big cities, it is an easy place for learning and practicing your skills.

For details about beginner surf camps in Lima, please click here.



What Should You Bring for a Beginner Surf Trip to Peru?
Here is a complete gear list for the perfect beginner surf vacation:

1. Sunscreen– For tropical sun, use no less than EltaMD UV.

2. Surfboard Bag– If you bring your own surfboard, you must have a good bag to protect it. Check out UCEDER, for example, which offers great value for money.

3. Surf Hat– To keep your head in the shade, try O&E Ocean and Earth Surf Hats. 

4. Travel Insurance– For the best insurance by World Nomads, please click here.

5. Surf Shorts/Surf Bikinis– Check out Hurley for new shorts and CUPSHE for surf Bikinis.

6. T-shirts and beach wear– Look for the new collection at Hurley.

7. Rash Guard– Protect your body with a good rash guard like BALEAF for men and AXESEA for women.

8. Surfboard Wax– Check out Sticky Bumps on Amazon.

9. Surf Booties– You will need a good pair of surf boots only if you surf over a sharp reef or in really cold water. Check out O’Neill Split Toe Booties.

10. Surfboard Leash– It is always good to have an extra leash just in case. Check out Ho Stevie Surf Leash.

11. Towel/Poncho– If you want a nice poncho, look at SUN CUBE Surf Poncho.


For more gear options and greater selections, look for our surf gear guides.




Prepare Your Body for a Surf Trip With Online Surf Training
As a beginner surfing in Peru, you are going to face several challenges. The waves breaking on your head, the currents, and the unstable surfboard can sometimes be tough to handle. Therefore, to make it easier on yourself, preparing your body and mind for the challenge is crucial. Here is what you can do to ensure you are in perfect shape and ready to face the ocean:

 

1. Take an online surf course– You can practice specific online surf exercises to work on the relevant muscles and improve your surf fitness. Check out Surf Strength Coach and Surfing Made Simple; both are great online surf programs that can help get you ready for your surf trip to Peru.

 

2. Sign up for a surf camp– Why deal with the ocean alone when you can be surrounded by people just like yourself and get advice from professional surf instructors? To find the best beginner surf camps in Peru, click here.




Conclusion- Final Thought

To sum up, these are the best surf spots in Peru for beginners. Sure, there are many other beaches, but it’s impossible to mention them all. The most amazing thing about surfing in Peru is that it offers many point breaks with long waves. That means

that any of these beaches can be suitable for beginners if they just catch the waves down in the lineup, where it is less powerful. In fact, nothing will improve your surfing more than riding long waves, and Peru has plenty of them.

Before you go, don’t forget to check out our post about the best surf camps in Peru, or the one about surf resorts in Peru.

